# Washington Collision Data Visualization

## Overview
The dataset used for this project is called “Collisions,” retrieved from data.gov, a U.S. government website that aims to improve public access to datasets generated by the Executive Branch of the Federal Government. The dataset provides information about collisions that have occurred in the Seattle area from January 2004 to September 2021, collected by the Seattle Police Department. The dataset is a geographic traffic collision dataset in CSV form. There are a total of 40 attributes and approximately 230,000 rows of data. Examples of the most notable attributes include the date of an incident, location (x and y coordinates), junction type, weather type, and severity description. Based on our observation, most of the attributes are categorical.


[Click here to access the visualization on the hosted system](https://danielpham0.github.io/info474-final-project/final-visualization/)

## Instructions to Run Locally
1. To run the server, open Terminal (for Mac) or Command Prompt (for Windows). Navigate to the folder info474-final-project/final-visualization using for example, cd /info474-final-project/final-visualization.
2. In the console execute the following command if you're running Python 2.x:

    `python -m SimpleHTTPServer 8080`

if you're running Python 3.x or higher, use

`python -m http.server 8080  (or python3 -m http.server 8080)`

3. Now, open your browser and type `http://localhost:8080/` in the URL bar and press enter or go.

If you go to the directory `info474-final-project/final-visualization`, you will see the file named `index.html`. When you enter `http://localhost:8080/` in your browser, your browser will automatically load the file named `index.html` in the folder.
